## 19.12.23. [Taxonomic rank](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taxonomic_rank)  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**분류학적 계급**(Taxonomic rank)이란 생물 분류학에서 정의하는 유기체들의 집단(a taxon)에 대한 상대적 수준 및 계층(hierarchy)을 의미한다. 

## 19.12.24. [Metabolite profiling](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0021967314017038)
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**Metabolite profilin** focuses on the analysis of a large group of metabolites that is either related to a specific metabolic pathway or a class of compounds  

## 19.12.26  [Untargeted metabolomics study](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3334318/)
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**Untargeted metabolomics study** is the comprehensive analysis of all the measurable analytes in a sample, including chemical unknowns. Due to its comprehensive nature, untargeted metabolomics must be coupled to advanced chemometric techniques, such as multivariate analysis, to reduce the extensive datasets generated into a smaller set of manageable signals. These signals then require annotation using either in silico libraries or experimental investigation and subsequent identification using analytical chemistry. Untargeted analysis offers the opportunity for novel target discovery, as coverage of the metabolome is only restricted by the methodologies of sample preparation and the inherent sensitivity and specificity of the analytical technique employed. However, the principal challenges of this approach lie in the protocols and time required to process the extensive amounts of raw data generated, the difficulties in identifying and characterizing unknown small molecules, the reliance on the intrinsic analytical coverage of the platform employed, and the bias towards detection of high-abundance molecules.   

## 19.12.27  [targeted metabolomics study](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3334318/)
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**Targeted metabolomics study** is the measurement of defined groups of chemically characterized and biochemically annotated metabolites. Through the use of internal standards, analysis can be undertaken in a quantitative or semi-quantitative manner. This approach takes advantage of the comprehensive understanding of a vast array of metabolic enzymes, their kinetics, end products, and the known biochemical pathways to which they contribute. When utilizing targeted metabolomics sample preparation can be optimized, reducing the dominance of high-abundance molecules in the analyses; in addition, since all analyzed species are clearly defined, analytical artifacts are not carried through to downstream analysis. When predefined lists of analytes are studied, novel associations between metabolites may be illuminated in the context of specific physiological states.

## 19.12.28  [Untarget, target에 대한 추가자료](https://www.intechopen.com/books/molecular-medicine/metabolomics-basic-principles-and-strategies)  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Metabolomics strategies cover two primary analysis platforms including “untargeted-discovery-global” and “targeted-validation-tandem” based on the objective of the study. In order to systematically identify and quantify metabolites from a biological sample and achieve comprehensive characterization of biomarker targets, the analysis considers both endometabolome and exometabolome. Untargeted discovery metabolomics has a hypothesis-generating manner and allows for full scanning of the metabolome, pattern identification, and “metabolic fingerprinting” for the global classification of phenotypes with interacting pathway interactions. Targeted metabolomics is hypothesis testing and generally performed for validation of an untargeted analysis.   
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In the targeted approaches (tandem-MS/MS), using a known standard, a quantitative analysis is performed on specific small molecules/metabolites or perturbations along a metabolic pathway also known as “biased or directed metabolomics” or “metabolic profiling.” Hypothesis-generating metabolomics covers different strategies as (i) nontargeted profiling, (ii) fingerprinting, and (iii) footprinting, while hypothesis-testing strategies are target analysis and diagnostic analysis. Nontargeted global metabolomics profiling refers to comprehensive metabolite/small molecule analysis. This analysis performs semiquantitative analysis with putative identifications of the detected features. Metabolomics fingerprint examines global snapshot of the intracellular metabolome enabling classification and screening, while metabolomics footprint analysis explores global snapshot of the extracellular fluid metabolome (secretions from cells or changes in metabolites consumed from the exometabolome). Quantification and identification of the features do not comply with fingerprint and footprint metabolomics.  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Metabolomics strategies for validation purposes refer to quantitative tandem/targeted analysis and diagnostic analysis of a known clinical associated compound/biomarker. Untargeted and targeted approaches should be performed consecutively in order to achieve an accurate identification and absolute quantitation of the metabolites [9]. Here, in this review, we provide a brief overview of the current status of promising MS-based metabolomics strategies and their emerging roles, as well as possible challenges.    

## 19.12.30. [Metabolomics and Metabonomics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metabolomics#Metabonomics)
1. Metabolomics
1. Metabolomes
1. Metaboites
1. Metabonomics
> 와 너무 헷갈린다.  

## 19.12.31. [Metabolic reprograming](http://ar.iiarjournals.org/content/35/11/5789.full)  
**Metabolic reprogramming** refers to the ability of cancer cells to alter their metabolism in order to support the increased energy request due to continuous growth, rapid proliferation, and other characteristics typical of neoplastic cells.  

## 20.01.02. [Fold change](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fold_change)
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**Fold change** is a measure describing how much a quantity changes between an original and a subsequent measurement. It is defined as the ratio between the two quantities; for quantities A and B, then the fold change of B with respect to A is B/A. Fold change is often used when analysing multiple measurements of a biological system taken at different times as the change described by the ratio between the time points is easier to interpret than the difference. [참고](http://blog.genoglobe.com/2017/10/fold-change.html)  
일단 링크랑 복붙만 해놓음. 


